# PokeDex
The AI & ML-Powered Smart Pokédex is an intelligent web application built enterally with streamlit that combines data analysis, machine learning, and generative AI to provide an interactive and educational experience for Pokémon enthusiasts. This project goes beyond a traditional Pokédex by integrating a machine learning model that predicts battle outcomes between Pokémon and an AI chatbot, powered by Google Gemini, that answers Pokémon-related questions in the voice of Professor Oak.The landing page functions as a classic Pokédex, displaying each Pokémon’s image, level, name, types, generation-specific descriptions, evolution chain, and a radar chart visualizing its stats.Additionally, the app includes dedicated tabs for Berries, Items, and Locations. Each of these sections features an integrated chatbot that simulates Professor Oak — a Pokémon specialist you can interact with to ask any Pokémon-related question. He responds naturally, using characteristic expressions from Professor Oak himself.There is also a Pokémon Analysis section, where you can select up to five Pokémon. Once selected, the app displays their images, names, and stats in a comparative table with a heatmap to easily identify the highest attributes and determine the strongest or fastest Pokémon. A radar chart is also included to visually compare all stats across the selected Pokémon.The final section introduces a Pokémon Battle Simulator, where users can select two Pokémon. In addition to displaying their images, names, and types, the app highlights whether one Pokémon is strong, weak, or has no effect against the other. Furthermore, a machine learning model analyzes the Pokémon data and predicts the winner of the battle assuming both are at the same level.
